What is Grettel Grettel stands for Ganu regression econometrics and time series library.
This is a free software package for econometrics analysis and this is what Grindl looks like on the
inside.
Those of you have worked for SAS and SPSS before will notice that it's got a similar interface and that
is correct.
All of these software packages for modeling resemble each other's interfaces and conceptually they are
very similar too.
Once you learn one of them it's much easier to grasp the rest.
In Grettel we will be able to do the same modeling just like an R and Python but we won't have to code
.
And that's the big deal here.
Some of you may already know our very well but some may not know it at all.
As I mentioned in the intro to this section My goal is to show you how to build a robust model and give
you a framework of steps that you can apply in any tool you choose.
That's where griddle will help us avoid getting bogged down in our coding.
Now let's go ahead and install a griddle to start off.
You're going to need a browser and in Google type in simply Grettel.
And then here one of the top links will be the source forge link.
Go ahead and proceed to that here.
You need to find a link which takes you to the installation packages so at the bottom here it says Grettel
for Microsoft Windows can be found here and Grindl for Mac OS can be found here.
So I'm going to click the windows link inside this page you can see that there are several different
versions.
You need the latest release and there is one for the 32 bit operating system there's one for the 64
bit operating system.
So select the correct one for your system and also you know how sometimes at work you can install programs
because you don't have admin rights or am at my previous job.
That was the case and was very annoying that I couldn't install software like this so in this case you
can actually download a zip archive.
It's a portable version so that means once you downloaded you just unzip it and you can use it.
Out of that folder right away without having to install the program and that will allow you to use it
even if you don't have admin rights.
So if you need that go ahead and install that and for the Mac OS it's very similar.
Very straightforward.
Here you just have to select the type of operating system you're running or type of processor.
Actually your computer is running and then the instructions are straight forward from there.
And once you've installed Grettel make a shortcut on your desktop and you're ready to proceed to the
next tutorial.